The
hey what's up everybody this is Jason with death slopes dot com.
And in this video we are going to learn about CSSA coloreds.
Now there's one of three ways that we can use colors in our projects and I'm going to take you through
and show you how to do that.
So first thing in your index file Let's go ahead and create two elements here.
The first one we're going to create is a Hetter one tag.
And we'll just write.
You are CSSA to my HMO.
All right.
And then the second element we're going to create is a header or two tag and we'll just try any one
skate out there.
All right sweet.
So now we've got two elements on our page that we can work with so I'm going to go ahead and do a vertical
split view here.
Now next why don't we go ahead and create a DIV tag with a class of container and just wrap these header
tags in that.
All right.
And then right below here we can go ahead and paste them.
All right perfect.
So now we've got a class that we can work with and then two header elements.
All right.
So let's go ahead and add a color to this container.
So to do that we're simply going to grab our class container and then we're going to add a background
color to this.
All right.
And what we're going to do first is the first way that we can add a color here is by writing the specific
name of a color.
OK.
Now when you're writing the name of the color one thing to know is the color name actually has to exist.
You can't just like make up a color name and throw it in there.
You have to make sure that the current name actually exists.
And in this case we are going to use.
Let's go ahead and use this dark slate blue.
All right.
So close that off with a semi there and then.
Let's go ahead and launch this and see what it looks like Cool so you can see that we've got a background
color that we've added to this container and we've got our two header tags wrapped inside of this.
Let's go over a second way that we can use colors in CSSA and to do this let's go ahead and grab the
head or one tag right and right color.
So to add a color to a any type of a text or a font you're going to write the property color and then
in this case let's use a hex code.
Now a hex code begins with a pound signed and then you can either use three or six characters depending
on the color that you're using.
Now if you're using one of the like primary colors like black or white or red or blue something like
that you can get away with using three letters in your hex code.
But if you want more of a specific color of some sort you can use up to six hex code letters here.
So this is the hex code for white.
I've added 6 F's here.
Now I could add three but I'm just going to use 6 and then if we come back over to this and refresh
or you can see that we have change the color to the head of one font to white.
Awesome.
So pretty standard and there is a third way that we can do this.
And let's go ahead and grab our head or two and we're going to add the same color property because we're
working with tex.
And then this one is an R.G. B color here.
OK so you're simply going to write.
RG double parentheses and then close it off with the semi colon and then in here we're going to give
this three values and I'm going to make this a blue color.
And so we're going to go ahead and out our three values so I'm going to add a zero.
It needs to be followed by a comma and then it's two or four followed by a comma and then 255 K..
And this is going to give us a blue color.
So when we're using R.G. B's colors remember takes three values and then it's separated by a comma.
And again this allows us to get more of a specific color that we're looking for.
If like the name of a color isn't giving us what we're looking for so let's go ahead and save that and
come back over here and you can see that we have changed the color of our head or two.
So very cool stuff.
Those are the three ways that you can use colors.
Now let's dive a little bit deeper and show you how we can work with gradients.
All right.
So to do this on this container Let's go ahead and get rid of the background color and put a semi colon.
And we're just going to be working with a background and then let's go ahead and open up our browser
and we're going to dive in a little bit deeper and have a better understanding of CSSA gradients.
So go ahead and type in CSSA gradient and then let's come to W3 schools here.
All right so it says here that says three gradients that you display smooth transitions between two
or more specified colors.
All right.
And you can see here in their example they kind of got this greenish blue over to a darker blue.
And also one thing to note with gradients is not all browsers support this like all browser versions
and there is an extra syntax that we can add to our gradients to help browsers pick up on this.
So for a gradient we can either use a linear gradient radial a repeating or a repeating radial gradient.
And these are the different browsers and there compatibility.
Now you'll notice that they have a syntax here like a Web Kit and then the Mozilla.
Here.
And then the O for Oprah.
So using this syntax here will help the browser read the property value of this linear gradient so it
shows up.
So coming down here a little bit further we've got some examples how we can use this so you can see
that they're using an ID and they're using the property background and then they're able to set these
gradients.
Now you do want to have a fallback default color for the browser to fall back on just in case there
is a compatibility issue for the browser.
So that way it just reads a standard color and I'm going to pull something in.
And then you can see that they have four other ways of adding the gradients and that's just adding in
a Web Kit compatibility for Oprah and Firefox.
And then they have the standard text here at the bottom.
So let's come back into brackets here.
And then on this what we're going to do is because we're using Chrome here and Chrome is very compatible
with a lot of the standards out there.
We're simply going to write a linear gradient.
This is the gradient that we're going to use in this example and then put your parentheses and then
close that off and then this is going to be taking a starting point and an end point.
All right.
So let's go ahead and grab two colors here.
I'm actually going to come back over to the browser.
I'm going to open up a new tab here and just write in html color picker.
And then again W3 schools has a really cool one that I like to use and the color that we're going to
be using is this blue here.
So I'm going to grab this hex value here.
I'm going to come back over the brackets and this is going to be my starting color.
OK so I'm going to go ahead and paste that in and then it takes two values because now I need the stopping
end of the color and I'm going to come back over to this and list to choose a lighter blue and I'm going
to grab this one here and copy it and then we'll come back over here and paste that color in.
All right.
And then let's go ahead and change this to a no split view because we're going to be working directly
in our CSSA here.
So now what we've done is we've added a linear gradient.
OK.
And this is a top to bottom.
So back into our browser here and you can see that it's taken the darker color added it to the top and
then it fades very smoothly into our lighter blue.
Now you saw that there was radial gradients and so forth.
We can also take these linear gradients and we can control the starting and stopping point of it and
to do that.
For example we can add a third variable here.
And what we can do is for an example we can say to right and this way it's going to start it from the
right to left.
OK so back over here and you can see now we've got a blue starting from the right and going to the left.
And you can do the same thing to the left and then you can also define like top or bottom.
Right.
So I'm not going to go ahead and I'm not going to add the web kits and the syntax for the other browsers
in this example we're just going to stick with a basic here.
So that is how you can work with gradients.
So it's just a background property and then choose the type of gradient you want to use and then you
can choose a direction and a starting and stopping color there.
All right.
Now the last thing that I want to cover here.
Working with colors is shadows and shadows are cool you can apply those to like backgrounds or text
or images really add any element on your page.
So let's come down to the hetter one tag and to add a shadow to a font.
Go ahead and type in tex shadow and then it's going to take two to three values here and in this first
example we're just going right to pixels by two pixels.
And what this is doing is we have our elements selected here.
K our element is selected and then we're saying on a vertical access where do we want our shadow to
be placed like how far out.
And then how far out do you want it placed on a horizontal access.
OK.
So go ahead and save that and we're setting the vertical and horizontal axis to two pixels by two pixels.
All right and that's going to put it to the bottom right now if we were to do negative 2 pixels and
negative 2 pixels This would put it at the top left.
So coming into here you can see that it has added a shadow back here.
It's it's difficult to see because we've added a white text color to our font so that's what it's inheriting.
So why don't we go ahead and change that.
So right after the two pixels we can actually define a color that we want to add to this.
And in this case let's use black.
That will show up really well with our white font.
So go ahead and save that.
And now you can see that it's taken our shadow.
And it's it's a solid black color.
Now the cool thing is we can actually add one more variable to this to this property here and that's
called a blur radius so instead of having such a hard black we can kind of spread the sound and blur
it out.
So let me show you how that works.
So right before defining your color black Let's go ahead and add a nother value here and we'll just
do five pixels and this is going to take this solid black line and it's going to blurt it out 5 pixels.
OK so coming into here you can see how much softer This is looking so very very clean.
Let's go ahead and add a background shadow to our head or two.
So again to do this we're going to do a text shadow and then in this case why don't we just do this
like one pixel by one pixel.
Give it a blur radius of like three pixels and then let's do a really cool color like hey let's just
too dark blue.
OK.
All right and then let's check out how that looks.
All right.
And you can see that it's added a much finer tech shadow to this.
Now we can also go ahead and actually add background shadow to this container that we've created.
So if we come into here and then on our container add a box shadow OK.
And then the same principle we can define the vertical horizontal axis set of Blur radius and a color.
So let's just do like a three pixel by three where we can actually make this different by five pixel
and then give it like a 3 pixel of a blur radius and then let's just do this as black.
So it shows up easily and then come over here refresh that.
And you can see that we've only shoved it over to pixels to the right but we've got a much heavier shadow
here on the bottom.
All right so very cool stuff.
So that is how we work with colors.
We can either use color names hex values or R.G. colors.
We've used colored gradients in here and then we have also learned how to add shadows to Tex or other
elements on our page so very cool stuff.
That's it.
That is a wrap.
Moving on.